README.md, before:

# Deploku

A quick and easy way to deploy the current branch to a Heroku. It copes with multiple remotes and runs migrations as necessary. It assumes you are running a Unix like system that will execute commands like `git rev-list abcdef7.. | wc -l`, for example.

You should also look at [jbrunton/heroploy](https://github.com/jbrunton/heroploy) which is very similar to this gem. Heroploy needs some configuration (Deploku needs none) but it does do a lot more (e.g. Travis). It's also stricter about which branch can be deployed where. I encourage you to check out Heroploy as well to see if it better suits your needs.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'deploku'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install deploku

## Usage

Just run the command and it will look for any git remotes referencing Heroku:

```
[master]$ deploku
2 Heroku remotes found:
production
staging
```

Then choose a remote and run it again:

```
[master]$ deploku production
Heroku app my-app-production is running commit abcdef7
It is 3 commits behind your local master branch
There are no pending migrations
```

If you want to deploy then add the `deploy` command:

```
[master]$ deploku production deploy
Heroku app my-app-production is running commit abcdef7
It is 3 commits behind your local master branch
There are no pending migrations
The following command will be run:

  1. git push production master:master

Proceed? (y/N):
```

Enter `y` to proceed or anything else to abort. Nothing will happen unless you enter `y`.

If there are migrations pending then you will be forced to either pass in either the `maintenance` or `maintenance:skip` options.

```
[master]$ deploku production deploy maintenance
Heroku app my-app-production is running commit abcdef7
It is 3 commits behind your local master branch
There is 1 pending migration
The following commands will be run:

  1. heroku maintenance:on --app my-app-production
  2. git push production master:master
  3. heroku run rake db:migrate --app my-app-production
  4. heroku restart --app my-app-production
  5. heroku maintenance:off --app my-app-production

Proceed? (y/N):
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/billhorsman/deploku/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

Commit message:

Allow use of first initial to identify remote.
Only works if the first initial for all remotes is unique. For
instance, if you have staging and production remotes then you can just
type “deploku s”.

README.md, after:

# Deploku

A quick and easy way to deploy the current branch to a Heroku. It copes with multiple remotes and runs migrations as necessary. It assumes you are running a Unix like system that will execute commands like `git rev-list abcdef7.. | wc -l`, for example.

You should also look at [jbrunton/heroploy](https://github.com/jbrunton/heroploy) which is very similar to this gem. Heroploy needs some configuration (Deploku needs none) but it does do a lot more (e.g. Travis). It's also stricter about which branch can be deployed where. I encourage you to check out Heroploy as well to see if it better suits your needs.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'deploku'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install deploku

## Usage

Just run the command and it will look for any git remotes referencing Heroku:

```
[master]$ deploku
2 Heroku remotes found:
production
staging
```

Then choose a remote and run it again to find its `status`:

```
[master]$ deploku production status
Heroku app my-app-production is running commit abcdef7
It is 3 commits behind your local master branch
There are no pending migrations
```

If you want to deploy then use the `deploy` command instead:

```
[master]$ deploku production deploy
Heroku app my-app-production is running commit abcdef7
It is 3 commits behind your local master branch
There are no pending migrations
The following command will be run:

  1. git push production master:master

Proceed? (y/N):
```

Enter `y` to proceed or anything else to abort. Nothing will happen unless you enter `y`.

If there are migrations pending then you will be forced to pass in either the `maintenance` or `maintenance:skip` options.

```
[master]$ deploku production deploy maintenance
Heroku app my-app-production is running commit abcdef7
It is 3 commits behind your local master branch
There is 1 pending migration
The following commands will be run:

  1. heroku maintenance:on --app my-app-production
  2. git push production master:master
  3. heroku run rake db:migrate --app my-app-production
  4. heroku restart --app my-app-production
  5. heroku maintenance:off --app my-app-production

Proceed? (y/N):
```

## Defaults

The default command is `deploy` since that always prompts you before doing anything anyway.

You can pick the remote just by choosing the first letter of the remote - as long as the initial letter for each remote is unique. For instance, if you have two remotes, `staging` and `production`, then you can just type `deploku s`.

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/billhorsman/deploku/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request
